1. May 24 - 28

 * ~~Set up a development environment for the Android ~~
 * ~~Compile Bonanza using the latest GCC version for ARM ~~
 * Familiarize myself with the Bonanza code base
 * Set up a website and write the introductory entry in the tutorial series detailing this process.   

 * Deliverable: ~~ Bonanza updated to compile on GCC-4.3 for ARM ~~
 * Deliverable: First tutorial entry with introduction and entry on configuring the development environment


2. May 31 - June 11

 * Isolate the Shogi engine into a library, stripping out the user interaction code and any dependencies that are unavailable in Android
   * rewrite get_cputime function in time.c to work with ARM
 * Write a wrapper that will interact with the GUI portion of the program for saving and loading games, time controls, difficulty settings, etc.

 * Deliverable: Can embed the engine inside another C program by including a short header and a pre-compiled library
 * Deliverable: Second tutorial entry about designing the interaction between the Java UI code and the C/C++ engine code


3. June 14 - 18

Write the Java Native Invocation (JNI) layer for the engine library. This is a wrapper that converts the C library into a Java library that is then accessible to the GUI layer. Configure the engine to use minimal memory and run quickly enough on a smartphone processor for testing.

 * Deliverable: Can start a new game and enter a move using Java code running on a device. This invokes the native engine code and sends back the computer’s move in response.
 * Deliverable: Third tutorial entry focusing on practical use of the Android NDK to write wrapper libraries.


4. June 21 - July 9

Write the user interface layer, including a board, rules enforcement and victory detection for a two player game, and the ability to play a game against the computer. The computer play will not yet be robust against interruption (e.g. from an incoming phone call).

 * Deliverable: A playable game of Shogi, both against the computer and human vs. human
 * Deliverable: Fourth tutorial entry explaining the UI code.
       
5. July 12 - 23

Continue polishing the UI layer. In particular, properly implement the Android application lifecycle, which details how the application may potentially be interrupted or shut down if the user navigates away or the system is low on memory. This requires being able to save the full state of the application and cleanly exit the Shogi library at potentially any time. Add a game setup option to set time controls, handicaps, and computer difficulty. Write the help file.

 * Deliverable: A robust game of Shogi that will be released onto the Android Market to begin receiving feedback.
 * Deliverable: Tutorial focused on handling the Android application lifecycle, in particular when interacting with code that was not designed for it.

6. July 26 - August 6

Optimize the Shogi engine for the memory and processor constraints of a smartphone. Targeted devices will be the HTC G1 and the Motorola Droid. The G1 is representative of the older generation of android smartphone, with a 528 MHz in-order processor and 192MB of RAM. The Droid is representative of the most recent generation, with a more sophisticated 550mhz out-of-order processor and 256MB of RAM. I will attempt to provide a gradient of difficulty levels that balances response time with move quality. I will make sure there are sufficient options on both difficulty extremes, to cover the needs of both new players and particularly patient players or those with faster devices.

To evaluate the speed and quality of the engine using various settings, I will create an automated benchmark with a set of easy and moderately difficult mating problems. For each collection of settings, I will evaluate the time spent against the number of problems that were solved correctly, and select a set of favorable trade-offs along this curve to be the difficulty settings.


 * Deliverable: A new release of the program on the Android market, with the engine substantially better tuned for smartphone devices.

7. August 9 - 13

Address any remaining complaints from users commenting on the Android market. Release the optimized and feature-complete version of the application.

 * Deliverable: Complete version of application available on Android market
 * Deliverable: Final entry in tutorial series